DATE: Sun, 02 Jun 2024 18:04:42 -0400
SUBJECT: the ineradicable remainder
TO: michael butler <msbutler05@gmail.com>
FROM: Jeff Jacobson <goodbyemrevans@gmail.com>

It's been forever!

I think I'll stick to art-related things for this email, if you don't mind.
I've wanted to email you for quite some time but have found myself unable
to do so. It's hard to articulate. It's not really being lazy, or being
busy, though those definitely contribute. I thought about texting you once
or twice but it felt inappropriate? Anyway, I hope the interval between
this email and my next is much shorter than the prior one.

I continue to play music with Evan. We have a regular Sunday time which
works out nice because I bring Toby to my parents' and they watch him for a
couple hours which I think is about their limit and everyone gets a break.
That keeps me sticking with Evan in spite of other difficulties, well that
and my loyalty to him as I see him as chiefly responsible for my reaching
the level I have in jazz. I had gotten to wherever I'd gotten through high
school and college and then our intensive playing in 2011-12 not only
upgraded my jazz playing but set me on my motivated jazz course for the
next 10+ years. For awhile we were consistent every week but things broke
off when Evan started kicking kratom, which I'm not sure if you know about.
He says it's basically an opiate and he was taking some kind of withdrawal
drug, maybe methadone, which he in turn had to wean himself off of, often
leaving him too ill to play. Now he's off the withdrawal drug as well but
not out of the woods as I guess there's still weeks of depression, anxiety,
fatigue, listlessness. This past Sunday he was only able to play two tunes
on drums. Afterwards I went for a walk in the airport conservation area,
which I hadn't been to, and even blew some soprano right at the edge of
the swamp. It was cool, it had a big echoing sound and I was playing kinda
modal but with chromatic interpolations, always ending on a low C. But then
I heard a dog barking and got self-conscious and stopped. I know we've
talked about how many issues I've had disturbing people with my playing
which makes it difficult in those kinds of situations. If I was in your
neck of the woods I could just go out on the Williamsburg Bridge! Probably
a little presumptuous. The week before, though, was a good sesh, instead of
just doing drums like he normally does he played some bass and piano which
are nice for me variety-wise plus I could hop on the drums when he did
piano. Another reason to stick with it is the uncertainty and difficulty
and time and effort it would take to find other people to play with which I
can't imagine fitting into my life right now, whereas Evan is 'reliable' in
the sense of, if he is available it's easy to set up and there's little
awkwardness, we know each other etc.

Also he finally played me the Emily songs which you mentioned awhile back!
Oh man, I just asked kind of polite questions about some of the formal
aspects and I'm glad he didn't ask for my opinion outright. But it was like
you said. Recently I did go through his whole Soundcloud and give him
feedback, which was that the later improvised stuff with Andy is pretty
monotonous but the earlier stuff with more harmonic and textural and
instrumental variety has a lot that I like. And I think it made an
impression on him, because he was talking about listening to two of his
albums, and how on the older one he was putting all his jazz stuff into it,
not so much the later ones. So there seems to be some awareness, I just
don't know what he's thinking with the Emily stuff, and his jazz playing is
always relatively tasteful and idiomatic though I guess maybe it wasn't at
WP which we've discussed.

I have two new tunes, both in a state of stubborn and frustrating
non-completeness. They are both mostly done but have little gaps to be
filled in. One of them manifested and came together, the A section at
least, very shortly after your last visit and is in fact dedicated to or
about you, well your family. The title is currently "mjc back to the city,"
we'll see if that sticks. And I hope to be able to share it with you at
some point. It's a little unwieldy in that form is quite long, AABA but the
A is 20 bars and the B is 16, and then the last A has a little tag. The
other one is called "miss brooke" and was inspired by my reading of
*Middlemarch*, have you read that? I'm about halfway through now. I had
never read any Eliot and in general I'm not big on 19th century novels
outside of certain authors, but I had seen this being mentioned lots of
places and gave it a look and don't regret it at all. I love the long
sentences, it's funny and vital and interesting and deep and broad. If you
haven't read it, one of the major characters and I guess the protagonist of
the first part of the book is Dorothea Brooke, and she has a younger sister
Celia, and the book or section or whatever is called Miss Brooke. You may
or may not also know that Bud Powell has a tune, Celia, that I've played
quite a bit, and this is getting pretty convoluted but at least from my
perspective it made perfect intuitive sense that I should then write a tune
on Bud's Celia changes named after Dorothea Brooke, which I've done except
for four refractory bars. It is or will be my favorite tune I've written
(by which I mean no slight to mjc). So that's another one hopefully you'll
hear soon, and definitely consider Middlemarch if you haven't before though
it's quite a beast at 800 or so pages. I'm taking my time with it. Actually
one of the things I wanted to text you was a photo of an excerpt but, well
maybe next time!

Did you ever manage to check out that movie First Reformed? No worries if
not but I would be very very interested to hear your take on it should you
have a chance.

We've been watching a lot of kids TV. Well not a ton but it accumulates.
Sesame Street is pretty solid as I remember you indicating. I especially
like some of the R&B inflections in the number of the day and letter of the
day songs (the astronaut one and the one sung by Elmo). The astronaut
counting sequence may be Toby's favorite, he likes to sing along with ah-ah
ah-ah in staaaaar. I could go for maybe 30% less Elmo. Bluey is another
favorite, I like when they do formally ambitious things like the episode
that's all in Facetime and they keep adding more screens. I was even able
to successfully apply knowledge from Bluey in a conversation I had with an
Australian guy! I was saying something about landscapers and he looked
confused and then I supplied "tradeys" and he was impressed, he said, "how
do you know so much of my culture?" And then we do the Miyazaki films that
are appropriate for very young kids: My Neighbor Totoro, Kiki's Delivery
Service, and Ponyo. I don't seem to get sick of any of those, and Totoro in
particular I think might be a legit classic of world cinema. Watching these
really got me thinking about the intentionality of animation, specifically
hand-drawn animation. If we were making a movie and I was filming you
outside and the wind blew your hair a little that would just happen, or it
wouldn't, and it would be part of the scene. But in a cartoon movie that
little breeze was willed and designed by somebody, and painstakingly
implemented. So many tiny details going by so fast.

The Crossmen are doing a Lush Life show! I know it will be bad but at least
they are playing mostly good music, Billy Strayhorn and Miles and Monk. And
maybe just maybe it will be good, but who am I kidding. The show
announcement video is well-done even if they seem to misinterpret the
lyrics, right when Johnny Hartman sings "Romance..." they do a montage of
all these unironic romantic shots, even as he continues "...is a mush
stifling all who strive; I'll live a lush life in some small dive." It's a
weird coincidence as I'd just been learning that tune when I saw the show
announcement. The lyrics are a tad purple but overall I think the best and
most interesting lyrics to any jazz standard, there's lots of internal
rhyme. And of course any thought of the Crossmen leads inevitably to the
vanished 'dets, I assume you saw they haven't just folded but are somehow
eternally barred from ever existing again? Something about how any
organization using the Cadets name would be liable for all of George
Hopkins' crimes.

Techwise one of the projects I've been working on is a jazz repertoire
management app. It's live on the web, I'd love it if you could make an
account and try it out. Though it might not be very useful to you. It's
funny, it's the same with Evan, you'd think he'd be a natural choice but
he's pretty indifferent to repertoire these days. The idea is it lets you
track your repertoire, crucially when you last played a tune, to help keep
you from forgetting tunes. I've been using it every day and it's been
pretty helpful, I know how many tunes I know and I can see how well I'm
doing hitting all of them in regular practice. When I first started using
Linux back in the day I was so amazed that there was all this software out
there for free in the world just because someone decided to make and share
it. Some of it is things a lot of people use every day but then there's
also weird niche things like this. I'm proud to have made what I think is a
useful contribution to that space. I haven't been working on it actively
for a little while but will come back to it, I want to add a 'tune
analytics' section where you can see graphs and whatnot of your most-played
tunes over different timespans, as well as more advanced search and display
features. Anyway, it's at https://jazztunes.org/ .

I'll stop there for now, oh one other thing in this book that was mostly
about Manet, maybe a very trite observation but I found it profound, that
from the Renaissance through to the birth of modernism looking at a
painting was supposed to be looking into a little room, into a
three-dimensional space you could dream in. But then the modernists
starting obliquely with Manet as their grandfather disrupted this by
treating the canvas as a flat plane, a surface that resists you or even
looks back at you to a certain extent? So you don't dream in it, you
confront it and/or it confronts you. *The Luncheon on the Grass *was a big
turning point. The book was *After the Beautiful* by Terry Pinkard.

Okay hope you're all well and sorry again for taking so long--
