DATE: Tue, 04 Jun 2024 20:17:19 -0400
SUBJECT: Re: the ineradicable remainder
TO: Jeff Jacobson <goodbyemrevans@gmail.com>
FROM: Michael Butler <msbutler05@gmail.com>

So good to hear from you! No worries regarding the interval. None
whatsoever. So many times I was on the verge of emailing you, the only
thing stopping me being how busy I am. That's not a brag or a complaint.
Simply a statement of fact.

Last I heard about Evan was from my Sister when the three of us visited my
sister and her fiance, Sam at an AirBnB in Holyoke with my parents. Emily
and Sam are engaged! That's some pretty big family news. Maybe Evan told
you. I'm not sure if you ever met Sam. I'm inclined to think not. He's
great! I can't remember if I've described him to you before, I'm inclined
to think so.

My dad did mention that you'd been playing with Evan somewhat regularly,
which makes me happy. I know I can get down on him, but I'll say that he
does have the quality of making everyone around him somewhat musically
active, or at least musically interested, even inspired. That's a good
quality. What you said about the kratom and the withdrawal drug and
subsequent withdrawal aligns with what my sister related, her opinion of
Evan being generally favorable for a change.

I'm genuinely touched by the dedication of your tune to my family. I've
admired your compositional output. I imagine it takes a lot of will and
energy to write and revise them. I can only imagine since I'm not a
composer. I do have a poem I'd like to share, though. It's been through
some revision stages. I've brought it to my poetry workshop twice now and
I've applied some of the useful feedback, definitely for the better. This
poem wasn't written on a wild impulse with no plan in mind, it was a poem
that came from an idea. I wanted to write a creation myth for
consciousness. I love the wordplay in your *Middlemarch *references in the
title of your tune. You are absolutely right, *Middlemarch* just comes up a
lot here and there. And now that *you've *mentioned it, well I think it's
time I take a look. Maybe that will be my summer read! I'm just about to
finish *Things Fall Apart*. I know. How can I have not read that by now? It
was assigned in college but I skipped it. So I read it admittedly in part
due to a latent guilt of an academic and cultural nature having neglected
my assignment all that time ago. This guilt is compounded by the fact that
I was showing around a KP student who was thinking about going to UMASS,
Eric Sigmund's younger brother, his name I forget. Anyway, I took him to a
seminar class, which convened outside that day, and we were discussing *Things
Fall Apart* but I hadn't read it! Though I didn't admit that to anyone in
the seminar, or my guest! But all that doesn't matter because it's a great
book!

I, too, recently met an Australian guy and we talked about Bluey. Your
description of watching children's television resonates deeply with me.
Speaking of which, have you seen *Butterfly in the Sky, *the documentary
about *Reading Rainbow*? It's super nostalgic for obvious reasons. I don't
know if you ever watched *"Rainbow"* as one of the producers calls it, but
I certainly did. I remember it not being my favorite, but definitely a part
of the rotation. I totally forgot they did an episode on the set of TNG,
that blew my mind. Could you imagine another member of the main cast of TNG
doing their other show in the middle of their prime time show? The opening
song slaps. I have imagined it many times as an opening statement to a drum
corps show - I have so many ideas for drum corps shows all the time and
they'll never be realized! How tantalizing. Lush Life sounds genuinely
cool. I try to enjoy drum corps now for what it is.

There was a Jason Bentley post that I found pretty funny. He joked that he
could now make all the Cadets merch he wanted and not get sued because they
don't, and as you point out can never again, exist. I was shocked but not
surprised, if that's possible. Not just George Hopkins but some other guy
named Voght, not sure if that's spelled correctly. Yes, these crimes
destroyed the Cadets. Their 2022 show is a fitting farewell as it's one of
those greatest hits shows. I'm sure I told you the story of my sister's
joke about Cadets '08 where they did a greatest hits tag ending to West
Side Story, Emily said it was like the Cadets' funeral, well 2022 even
moreso, even though they didn't finally disappear until 2024. I felt really
bad for Stan. That guy is a bonafide drum corps legend. It looked like
teaching at Cadets was a big part of his life. That was the biggest lament
- that it wasn't fair that the whole organization should be punished for
the crimes of two people, one being the director and a powerful figure in
the drum corps world. There is a part of me that feels like I am part of an
exclusive club now that they don't exist, even though I know that's weird.
I was wearing my Cadets jacket a lot in the fall. It's good for the
weather. I'm sure it means nothing to the people in that part of the Bronx.
Though, I saw something on the Cadets Facebook alumni page about having a
rehearsal in the Kingsbridge Armory which is across the street from my
school and I'd really like to verify that. Drum corps is so niche the
documentation is not robust enough to stand the test of time, it dissolves
to lore.

That jazz app sounds pretty cool. I'll check it out when I get a chance.
Not much else going on for me over here. Joanna is going to have a little
"stepping up" ceremony to mark the end of 3K. My own school year is
wrapping up. I won't get into detail about work but a while back I was at
something of a crossroads: 1. keep my head down and just worry about my
classes and not meddle in school-wide affairs, or 2. try to wield influence
to make change in the professional development and policies at the school
in an attempt to improve things for teachers. Hiring is dire. It's almost
impossible to find candidates at all let alone select one. I feel that some
of the expectations make the job too hard for most people and that's why
they leave. Anyway I took the second choice, maybe foolishly. So far I've
made a lot of progress along those lines. I developed a literacy assessment
system that I'm hesitantly excited about. I'll make an effort to tell you
more about it. I even had the new English teacher over for dinner at
Christina's suggestion to try to make her feel valued and part of the
school community. I hope she stays because she's pretty good and last year
the 10th grade English teacher quit before Halloween and all of my current
students had a long-term sub last year who did absolutely nothing with them
so they have no knowledge of literary elements or anything, something the
kids I used to get actually did know to varying degrees because we used to
have a really good 10th grade English teacher names Sally who left to go to
a better school.

I'll be up in Norfolk mid-July, the 15th and some days after. We should get
together!

 Along Came a Mind
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rXzWXHumeeKCTfL6_GWmIYqp_8JXvVS0YlM8bKbqQuE/edit?usp=drive_web>

