DATE: Thu, 04 Jul 2024 23:19:46 -0400
SUBJECT: deleted emails
TO: Jeff Jacobson <goodbyemrevans@gmail.com>
FROM: Michael Butler <msbutler05@gmail.com>

Jeff, I hope you are well. I am writing you from Norfolk actually. Headed up to Maine tomorrow for a family vacation. I’ll be in Norfolk again for a few days after our trip. That would be the 12th-15th or so. It’s a bit short notice but we’d love to say hi sometime then, either in Norwood or Norfolk. We will be back up in Massachusetts in August if we aren’t able to get together in July. 

I made possibly a terribly consequential mistake tonight that was careless and avoidable. In clearing out my gmail inbox and then subsequently clearing out the trash folder as I routinely do, I somehow accidentally cleared out my “all mail” folder, and then again from the trash folder. In doing so I accidentally deleted all our emails over the years, which I had intended to someday archive more permanently, even to compile them all in one file. 

It would bring a great deal of relief even just to know whether you still have our emails archived. That is both emails sent from me to you, and more importantly, from you to me. I had considered our correspondence to be not just a chronicle of our friendship, but indeed the most intact account of my life. Needless to say I was distraught and embarrassed by my error. I’d hate to think it was all lost. 

My hope is you have our correspondence, or some amount of it, and that it is not lost. If that’s the case, it would again bring great relief to know you still had them. If you do, then perhaps it would be possible at some future time of your convenience to forward them to me so I might finally go about preserving them more permanently - eventually in the form of physical copies for you and myself. 

My apologies for the somewhat random and jarring nature of this email. Hopefully I have not caused such a great loss. 

As I grappled with the possibility of such a consequential error, I attempted to console myself with ideas we’ve talked about and probably recorded well enough - the nature of impermanence, radical detachment and stoicism in the face of such events, but above all, the understanding that our friendship, indeed our lives are much more than our emails and that the memories cannot be lost so easily. Apologies for the melodrama. Thanks in advance for your reply and what matters most is that you and your family are happy and healthy. 

You’re the best, Jeff. Thank you for being such a great friend all these years. 